C++ allows declaration of variables wherever you like you can declare them instantly wherever you are
using them whereas in C language we we're supposed to declare all the variables in the beginning of
a program like Suppose I NEED A B C D.
All the variables must be declared at one place but in C++.
Suppose I have A variable and B.
And I also need C and I have to find sum of them in B and store the rather than c then that requires if
suppose inside some conditional statement.
I just write true here on here if I need C then I can declare c heal itself and store the result of a
and b in this one and cout C.
now this C is declared inside if and it will remain only through out this block.
So in C++ the scope or the visibility of the variables is limited to the block in which they are declared.
Let me try to access a C variable here.
I will say C out C,  endl let us see what happens.
see its an error.
Use of undeclared identifier.
See you can see this message is appearing here.
Error message.
So compiler is giving an error message that c is not declared and I'm trying to use a C.
So this means that the life of C variable has finished here by the end of this block.
I'll just run the program and see what it happens.
Yeah 15 it is displaying the sum off a and b that is stored in C. I will remove these things.
I'll show you one more.
Suppose I want a variable c in that I want to store the sum of A and B.
And here I want to check the condition C is greater than 10 or not.
This is the condition. now this condition
I have written based on this variable that is C which I have stored the result of a and b here.
So I need a variable c only for checking the condition and entering into this loop.
And after this if I don't require c here suppose I don't need see here after.
If I have declared this C only for using it as a condition or inside this if block.
I want see with in here only.
But in this example I must declare c before if then only I can use it in the condition.
though I don't want c through out the program but when I have written it here it will be visible through out  the program.
Now how to limit this C with in this if block.
There are two methods.
See one method is.
I can make a empty blocks here and close like this now this will  be visible only in this block.
After this if I have to say cout  c, let us see what happens.
See uss of undeclared identifier c.
So C is visible only in this block.
So if you want to limit the visibility of some variables then you can simply put a emptyblock.
Now one more method I will show you how to use this variable to a limited scope.
I will declare this variable c
inside if.
Yes you heard it right, I will declare it inside if.
Is it allowed.
Just like if you know in for loop we can declare the variable like this.
And inside if
Also I can declare the variable like this.
This is allowed from C++ 17 onwards.
This type of expression are allowed from c++ 17 onwards.
So this will be limited only to this if block.
So if you have any variable declarations that are limited for this conditional statements so you can
declare them as a part of if statement only.
This is an interesting feature.